we're listening to tornados to try to
increase warning times and save lives we
have measured a tornado a small tornado
that emitted sounds between like a tone
at 5 to 10 Hertz
we assume that it's producing the sound
because the pressure in the middle of
the tornado drops and then you get these
fluctuations from the the variation in
terrain that makes it oscillate and
based on dimensional reasoning you would
say that then you would expect both the
frequency to correlate with the size of
the tornado and the amplitude to
correlate with how low the pressure is
dropping in the core that term the
tornado so since we can measure this
from up to 300 miles away we have the
possibility of from far distances
estimating both size and strength of the
tornado
so for each each location you're gonna
want at least three microphones so you
can get a bearing angle of where the
sounds coming from and then what makes
it tough to get infrasonic measurements
is wind noise will contaminate your ear
measurement so it's kind of unusual is
we have our microphone out in say a
grassy area a dome over it and then we
have a bunch of garden hoses coming out
of it and we spread out these soaker
hoses so they're porous walls and we we
spread them out and like say an X
pattern you do that to do spatial
averaging so that wind noise that's
going over the different components will
cancel out because they're incoherent
while a large pressure wave from a
geophysical source will be coherent over
it we have three of them you do the
correlation between them together where
the signals coming from I'm studying at
the effect of pool fire when it's
burning adjacent to an iceberg so I can
say that I am studying fire and ice one
of the conventional methods they use for
oil spill cleanup in the marine
environment is the use of combustion to
remove the oil from surface when you
ignite the oil in environment that has
ice in it the ice will not and that will
change the burning behavior and the
dynamic of cleanup tremendously so what
we had in these experiments is a 10
centimeter square glass tray very
have octane inside it and a three
centimeter thick ice wall adjacent to
death when you're imposing such great
horizontal temperature difference and
the liquid surface you're inducing
surface tension driven flows that
facilitate transfer of heat from the
flame toward the ice ball that's why you
see that enhanced melting along the top
layer of the liquid the other effect is
that because of higher density of water
that meltwater will fall down and now
you have increasing level of the fluid
because that water accumulation
underneath the oil and that can cause
different things for example it can make
the oil to overflow from its containment
and go to somewhere else it can extend
the fire and that's unwanted the goal of
Institute burning is to remove as much
as oil as possible
I study how ice interacts with the
oceans with implications for climate sea
ice is basically it's ice that forms
each winter in the polar oceans when you
get through to winter the temperatures
get so cold up there in the Arctic and
Antarctic that you start to actually
freeze the surface of the ocean and you
end up forming this thin layer of ice so
maybe a few meters of ice but the thing
we were really interested in
understanding is how when you grow this
ice how does the salt that was initially
in the sea water drain out of the ice as
it grows into the ocean and then how
does that impact which has important
consequences for ocean circulation of
mixing if you think about the ice that
we're familiar with looking at is things
like ice cubes where you've got really
solid ice one of the quirky things that
happens when you freeze saltwater is
rather than growing this nice pure ice
crystal you actually get something
that's quite porous and so you get a
mess of lots of ice crystals with liquid
salty water traps in in between those
ice crystals but because it's a lot
heavier than the underlying ocean it
basically will want to sink down into
the underlying ocean waters and then
this can drive some circulation and then
that can have potentially have
downstream impacts on things such as how
carbon is mixed down into the deep ocean
things that are happening on relatively
short timescales that we were studying
but the accumulated effects may add up
to have a longer-term climatic impact
you